feat: add amazon bedrock vecs example. (#21963)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/ai/examples/semantic-image-search-amazon-titan.mdx

---
id: 'semantic-image-search-python-amazon-titan'
title: 'Semantic Image Search with Amazon Titan'
description: 'Implement semantic image search with Amazon Titan and Supabase Vector in Python.'
subtitle: 'Implement semantic image search with Amazon Titan and Supabase Vector in Python.'
tocVideo: 'A3uND5sgiO0'
---

> [Amazon Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock) is a fully managed service that offers a choice of high-performing foundation models (FMs) from leading AI companies like AI21 Labs, Anthropic, Cohere, Meta, Mistral AI, Stability AI, and Amazon via a single API, along with a broad set of capabilities you need to build generative AI applications with security, privacy, and responsible AI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Amazon Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock) is a fully managed service that offers a choice of high-performing foundation models (FMs) from leading AI companies like AI21 Labs, Anthropic, Cohere, Meta, Mistral AI, Stability AI, and Amazon. Each model is accessible through a common API which implements a broad set of features to help build generative AI applications with security, privacy, and responsible AI in mind.
```

[Amazon Titan](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/titan/) is a family of foundation models (FMs) for text and image generation, summarization, classification, open-ended Q&A, information extraction, and text or image search.

> In this guide we'll look at how we can get started with Amazon Bedrock and Supabase Vector in Python using the Amazon Titan multimodal model and the [vecs client](/guides/ai/vecs-python-client).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this guide we'll look at how we can get started with Amazon Bedrock and Supabase Vector in Python using the Amazon Titan multimodal model and the [vecs client](/docs/guides/ai/vecs-python-client).
```

> You can find the full application code as a Python Poetry project on [GitHub](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/tree/master/examples/ai/aws_bedrock_image_search).

Reviewer: this link currently 404s

Author: That's okay, the example is part of the PR.

import json
import base64
from matplotlib import pyplot as plt
from matplotlib import image as mpimg

DB_CONNECTION = "postgresql://postgres.[PROJECT-REF]:[YOUR-PASSWORD]@aws-0-[REGION].pooler.supabase.com:5432/postgres"
```

Next, get the [credentials to your AWS account](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/guide/credentials.html) and instantiate the `boto3` client:

```python
bedrock_client = boto3.client(
    'bedrock-runtime',
    region_name='us-west-2',
    # Credentials from your AWS account
    aws_access_key_id='<replace_your_own_credentials>',
    aws_secret_access_key='<replace_your_own_credentials>',
    aws_session_token='<replace_your_own_credentials>',
)
```

## Create embeddings for your images

In the root of your project, create a new folder called `images` and add some images. You can use the images from the example project on [GitHub](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/tree/master/examples/ai/aws_bedrock_image_search/images) or you can find license free images on [unsplash](https://unsplash.com).

To send images to the Amazon Bedrock API we need to need to encode them as `base64` strings. Create the following helper methods:

```python

> def readFileAsBase64(file_path):

Reviewer: some docstrings explaining what each function does would be nice

    return json.dumps(
        {
            "inputImage": base64_string,
            "embeddingConfig": {"outputEmbeddingLength": 1024},
        }
    )

def get_embedding_from_titan_multimodal(body):
    response = bedrock_client.invoke_model(
        body=body,
        modelId="amazon.titan-embed-image-v1",
        accept="application/json",
        contentType="application/json",
    )

    response_body = json.loads(response.get("body").read())
    print(response_body)
    return response_body["embedding"]

def encode_image(file_path):
    base64_string = readFileAsBase64(file_path)
    body = construct_bedrock_image_body(base64_string)
    emb = get_embedding_from_titan_multimodal(body)
    return emb
```

Next, create a `seed` method, which will create a new Supabase Vector Collection, generate embeddings for your images, and upsert the embeddings into your database:

```python
def seed():
    # create vector store client
    vx = vecs.create_client(DB_CONNECTION)

    # create a collection of vectors with 512 dimensions
    try:
        images = vx.create_collection(name="image_vectors", dimension=1024)
    except:

>         images = vx.get_collection(name="image_vectors")

Reviewer: These methods were deprecated last year. The new way to do this is 
```python
images = vx.get_or_create_collection(name="image_vectors", dimension=1024)
```

https://supabase.github.io/vecs/0.4/api/#get-or-create-a-collection

                img_emb2,
                {"type": "jpg"}
            ), (
                "three.jpg",
                img_emb3,
                {"type": "jpg"}
            ), (
                "four.jpg",
                img_emb4,
                {"type": "jpg"}
            )
        ]
    )
    print("Inserted images")

    # index the collection for fast search performance
    images.create_index()
    print("Created index")
```

Add this method as a script in your `pyproject.toml` file:

```toml
[tool.poetry.scripts]
seed = "image_search.main:seed"
search = "image_search.main:search"
```

After activating the virtual environtment with `poetry shell` you can now run your seed script via `poetry run seed`. You can inspect the generated embeddings in your Supabase Dashboard by visiting the [Table Editor](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/editor), selecting the `vecs` schema, and the `image_vectors` table.

## Perform an image search from a text query

With Supabase Vector we can easily query our embeddings. We can use either an image as search input or alternative we can generate an embedding from a string input and use that as the query input:

```python

> def search(args=sys.argv):

Reviewer: Nit: this looks a little funky

There's nothing wrong with it, but it's coupled tightly to command line args and it isn't obvious how to override for non CLI use.

If you wanted to call this from code you'd have to write

```python
search(args = ["some query term"])
```

alternatively if the signature was 
```python
def search(query_term: Optional[str] = None):
   if query_term is None:
      query_term = sys.argv[0]
   ...
```
then its clearer from code and still usable via CLI

    # create vector store client
    vx = vecs.create_client(DB_CONNECTION)

>     images = vx.get_collection(name="image_vectors")

Reviewer: get_or_create
